um
today we're going to be speaking to you
about the thousand x chasm um you know
for us it's uh really important at data
iq to think about the way in which we're
supporting our customers and really
let's say building the internal
structure to do that at scale
and so what we want to do in this talk
is really challenge your thinking
and i think that the way that we'd like
to do that would be first to challenge
you to think about how big your market
actually is um obviously there's many
different calculations out there many
different ways in which different uh
financial analysts uh investors your own
teams may be thinking about your total
addressable market there's a lot of that
that has to do with the positioning of
your product but what we'd like you to
think about is how could your customer
success approach allow you to unlock
potentially vastly more market
opportunity um at date iq our experience
has been that there has been a much
greater potential than perhaps we
originally realized and a lot of the
access to that potential is through
customer success
and so that's been an extremely
informative experience for us at dataiku
and so we're hoping to share that
experience with with all of you today
because we do think that if you do
customer success in the right way
there might be far more
market out there for you which doesn't
require a massive pivot which doesn't
require you to change fundamentally your
uh your product um it may just be a
matter of changing the way in which you
engage with your customers the way that
you organize yourself internally and of
course the way in which you think about
the way that those two interact your
internal organization feeding into a
into the customer experience that you
want to have
the underlying theme here though is
going to be one that we think about a
lot at dairyku which is which is tension
what are the inherent tensions in a lot
of these processes
and we think that it's actually not by
running from tension not running from
things which may seem on the face
contradictory but rather embracing them
that you're going to have the most
success uh that you're going to be able
to balance the various challenges that
you need to in order to to succeed in
your market and of course become the you
know the dominant market player that
that you all hope to be
so that's going to be an underlying
theme
throughout all of the uh throughout all
this talk um
as we go through the different examples
and so on uh so look out for that word
tension for us we really do think it's
at the core of your success it certainly
has been at the core of our success
so just to walk you quickly through our
plan for the the talk uh today we'll do
a little bit of an introduction uh on
the next slide uh so you know who we are
and why
why it's been deemed appropriate for us
to speak to you on these topics uh
ultimately up to you to judge uh but
it'll be useful for you to understand
who we are and where we're coming from
then
uh points two and three are two
different concepts that we're then going
to spend a little bit more time digging
into the first is the concept of nested
value here uh we we want to encourage
you to think beyond just users and
consider a broader uh let's say group of
we can call them stakeholders for for
want of a better term uh within your
organization that you need to satisfy
the third uh or point number three the
second of the two points that we want to
uh that we want to hit home um is that
notion attention uh we're going to give
some specific examples uh as well of
when we lead into that tension at dataku
and then to wrap it all up we're going
to talk about building a bridge across
the 1000x chasm right
how do you actually do this in perp
in practice and what are the main
takeaways for you to walk away from uh
with uh from this talk um as we said as
katelyn said at the outset we do have 20
minutes set aside for uh for questions
at the end so please don't hesitate to
to use that to your full advantage you
know we're we're here for you uh during
this uh during this session um so we
really look forward to those questions
feel free to drop them in the q a module
uh we'll get to those uh once we uh once
we wrap up but first who are we who's
dataiku uh let's start with who is the
aiku first and then we'll introduce
ourselves um but dataiku is an
enterprise ai platform um and so our
customers and it's relevant for you to
know who we are and you know
and to think about let's say the way in
which we build our teams or the type of
customers that we serve because of
course that informs our uh our
perspective on how to serve those
customers our customers do tend to be
enterprise uh large enterprise customers
you know we're we typically are working
on a one to three uh one to three year
contracts with uh with our customers and
typically have larger dollar amounts
that said we're also going uh you know
and really attacking the uh
the the s b market uh as well leading to
this need to to really be able to cross
that chasm between small customers and
large customers but also small entities
within a larger customer
as well as of course the uh uh the top
of that uh that pyramid as well
um at didaiku i'm the chief customer
officer which means i have
responsibility for our customer success
and professional services uh
organizations uh for you know all of our
customers and all of our teams around
the world um and today i'm joined by uh
my colleague jack one of my favorite
colleagues don't tell the others uh
who leads our uh customer success
practice in uh in canada in the u.s east
jack would you like to say a few words
of introduction
yes thanks so much kurt um so yes as
kurt mentioned i lead our team in the
east and in canada and i actually think
that i have the best job in the entire
world i'm able to work with people i'm
able to help them solve problems with
technology and i'm able to travel all
over north america so it's been a really
beautiful journey and we're going to
talk a little bit about this but i've
really loved how our organization has
found new ways to engage with customers
over these last 18 18 months and while
it's lovely that we're back in person
again it's great to see how we've
leveraged technology to continue to
drive value for our customers so thanks
so much for having us today yeah so
let's uh let's dig into uh to that first
topic uh
thinking about nested value um and the
way that again i'm framing that is going
beyond users i think it's natural for
any sort of product company any sort of
software company to really think about
the user experience natural i mean it's
essential you have to do it um but i
think that sometimes as an organization
where you know your goal is to deliver
value to your customer organizations
sometimes we focus almost too narrowly
on that user on that individual which
once again we have to get that right uh
you have to work with your product teams
you have to work with with your
engineering teams to ensure that the
product is meeting the user's needs but
we want to expand your thinking right we
want to make sure that you are thinking
about the ways in which the value that
you deliver for your customers is nested
and what we're talking about there uh is
that there's different you know levels
within your organization
even those that are not users of your uh
of your platform but who have needs and
you know we can think about this almost
as a as a pyramid as a hierarchy um
where at the base right you have all the
individual users who you know throughout
their day are using your product right
and of course that's where the the core
ux concerns come in maybe they're
focused you know and so we want to make
sure that they're getting value that
value for them it might be any number of
different things
um you know it probably comes through
some sense of efficiency some sense of
mastery
some sense of growth right thanks to
thanks to this great new technology i'm
able to do things that i wasn't able to
previously that's good for my career you
know i'm having impact on my uh on my
company and you know i enjoy the
interface that i work in all day right
there's those core individual needs
which absolutely are the foundation but
then it's important to think up that
pyramid as well you know what are the
needs of uh of that team and for example
the the manager level what do they need
to accomplish and how can you as a
product company
understand the needs of that manager
even if they're not directly a user of
your platform articulate that need uh or
articulate that value with them and
ensure that you're consistently
delivering on that um and then similarly
right let's continue up the uh the
pyramid ultimately right there's then
the organizational needs the uh the
executive for corporate needs that that
come along with that
and this is where uh you know you start
getting into topics related to
transformation topics related to the
strategic orientation of the uh
of your customers organization now of
course not every product is necessarily
suited to have those discussions um not
every product is nor is that not every
product uh you know really focused on
individual needs right you all have your
individual or your specific go to market
strategies um but at data iq we found
quite a lot of success in thinking about
these three different levels um of
course sometimes there's multiple levels
within there then you need to multiply
this across different roles in the you
know the lines of business you know for
us it's we have the hierarchy of data
scientists within our customer
organizations but then you have the
business units as well how do they
interact there is some complexity there
but by embracing that complexity and you
know really ensuring that you're
driving value to those different levels
that's where at least in our experience
there is a lot of potential and a lot of
real growth opportunities for your
organization that you may not may have
not realized previously
now i can sit here and talk about uh you
know the theoretical aspects um over you
know modified uh images of uh of
pyramids but i think it's more uh more
valuable actually that we uh that we
take this and we make it very concrete
for you so this is where i'd like to
invite jag back in to uh to speak to a
real customer experience we've had uh
working through these concepts so jag
over to you
thank you
so yes as kurt mentioned we worked with
a major global banking customer of ours
and the stakeholders were really diverse
there were four different groups across
different ends of the business starting
with it admins cloud architects their
data center of excellence and their
business users and within these teams
there were different levels as well
similar to the pyramid that kurt just
showed
so if we talk about the first team the
it admins um it's really important
across any stakeholder to really
understand what their goal is in order
to understand what value means to them
right because at the end of the day
value is achieving your goals
so we learned that this team had a huge
mandate they had to um they had to
find a way to really
gain some efficiencies in their data
pipelines so that they could move their
models out to production as fast as
possible but they had to do it in a way
that was cost effective
and so we sat down with them and we said
you know let's look at your pipelines
what are the areas that are really
costing you a lot of money and the ones
that are taking up the most amount of
time and let's start quantifying what
these issues are and we were able to
redesign their process introduce them
into some efficiencies with our offering
and the end goal was they were able to
find a path to achieve their goals but
also find the language and the metrics
and the numbers to go to their executive
stakeholders and say this is the
investment that we need and in making
this investment this is the value we're
going to realize right away and in the
end we can achieve our goals but we can
do it we can do it in a way that's cost
effective and gets us there in a really
fast way
then we started talking to the cloud
architects
and the cloud architects had a mandate
to take their existing on-premise
environment and move it into the cloud
so that they could really advance along
the technology curve
but their big fear and big challenge was
they didn't want to have to get into
more vendor relationships they wanted to
find a way to minimize the numbers of
vendors that they worked with so that
their end users would have a more
seamless experience and they could
simplify the way that they service their
business teams
so to them simplicity a smooth
transition and a strong user experience
was really important and you know what
articulating
which product features you know aligned
with their goals was super easy we know
we have a good product we know we're
going to be able to achieve success so
we could talk about you know a
consistent interface or being clouded
diagnostic
but here where we really added value
speaking to the execs and saying you
know cloud is just the first step but
here's the industry expertise that we're
bringing and here are the patterns and
the challenges that we've seen so have
you thought about the fact that maybe
your cloud strategy will change and
you'll realize this isn't the right
platform for you and here's how we're
going to go on that journey with you and
help you be more flexible and really
future proof your solution
or you know you're a big investment bank
and we work with lots of banks did you
think about the fact that some of your
teams won't be able to move everything
onto the cloud so let's also think about
a hybrid approach right where we still
make it super simple for you we still
create a great user experience but again
we offer this flexibility
so of course value for them you know
they had a vision of what they thought
value was but we were able to articulate
new changes that could come up and new
ways that we could really simplify their
process to move on to the cloud
now similarly their data center of
excellence had a similar mandate and
these executives had this huge mandate
to unleash ai and machine learning
across the organization their goal was
how do we really achieve success by
making us a data driven organization
upskilling our people and moving along
the ai maturity curve and also their big
uh concern
was how do we create a seamless
experience for our users right how do
they get off these legacy tools and
still like our tool
and so
again we were able to highlight a
roadmap of how we'd help them with this
change management how we would upskill
but really what does this mean for their
organization you know what is the power
what are the net gains they're going to
come out of the power of each individ
individual user now being able to make
data driven decisions what's the power
of different users from different ends
of the business being able to work
together in the same spot and what will
they gain in their industry and what
will they gain in being able to move
along the analytics maturity curve
and then we were also able to
estimate the value and the business
impact right so what efficiencies could
they gain how could they repurpose their
people to do more insightful work
instead of doing a lot of the manual
data prep work
and then you know i know we talked about
stakeholders being in different ends of
the organization but those business
level users were really important as
well
and so we invested a lot of time and
energy in connecting with their business
users and really seeing what success
looked like for them we knew what those
organizational level goals were to
really you know create efficiencies
unleash ai and ml but what did those end
users really need to have a good
experience with our tool and so
investing in those relationships we
learned that they had a lot of
regulatory issues they were dealing
dealing with and some of our features
were were helping them get there but
kind of missing the mark and it still
created a lot of manual work for them so
we sat down and we listened we talked
about our product roadmap we talked
about what they needed to see and in
total to date i think we've created
close to 100 feature requests for them
and so in working with them we realized
that value really meant being able to
have their voice heard being able to
gain insight into a product roadmap but
also influence it which was something
they hadn't experienced with other
vendors before
and so that was that was a great key win
and that was a great way for us to learn
even more about the
customer and so yeah that was it already
kurt thanks so much jake and i uh really
appreciate this uh you know this
anecdote this story uh you know from a
customer that uh that i know well and is
certainly uh succeeding and i think in
large part it is due to the fact that we
were able to articulate that value not
just to the end users right though of
course we were doing that as well
but truly to those who would benefit
from the product's use by others in the
organization which i think is the
essential step that we're encouraging
you to make
is to think about who are the other
beneficiaries within the organization
even if
they are not users themselves or
managers direct managers of users
and that's exactly what uh uh what you
heard jack described here when we're
talking to cloud architects for example
some of them may touch our
our product uh from time to time but
that's not ultimately what we were uh
what we were selling them on they
weren't being sold uh as users or they
we weren't understanding them as users
but rather as stakeholders as
beneficiaries of that use by others
in building that complete understanding
and working up and down in that pyramid
uh thanks to jegs good work and the good
work of the rest of the team um has of
course allowed that customer to become
one of our most successful worldwide so
also thank you jack for all the good
work on that account um let's move on to
the to the next high level concept that
we want to talk about today
that is structure and flexibility
and embracing the core tension in your
organization so once again we keep
coming back to that concept of tension
um and here one of the tensions that i
really want to lead into is about
structure versus flexibility once again
it can seem as if we're talking about
two things two concepts which are in
opposition to one another and of course
in a sense they are but that opposition
is not a problem rather it's a source of
strength because ultimately you need
both right uh you need flexibility to
ensure that uh your your your customer
success managers your practitioners out
in the field working with your customers
that they feel empowered to develop
creative new ideas uh for uh for the
customers i like to think about a
concept of let's call it managerial
humility right where sure you know some
of us have been doing this longer than
those in the field um you know maybe we
you know we have the benefit of seeing
other customers uh
over the years but we're not down there
in the trenches every day um and we
don't know the details we haven't been
having the conversations that those
colleagues are having and i think it's
really important for managers uh and
those of you who are thinking about
structuring your teams to acknowledge
the limits of what you know what good
ideas you can come up with
and so you want to build systems that
allow for that flexibility to be able to
capture those good ideas as they come
back but at the same time of course
you don't want everybody reinventing the
wheel and that's where structure comes
in you don't want everybody to start you
know coming up with their own customer
success methodology for every new
customer right that's perfectly
inefficient uh and probably leads to you
know very inconsistent customer
experience
and all sorts of uh
excessive costs on uh on your side as
well
you know instead you want to equip them
with a uh with a system with clear
guidelines clear expectations and of
course the assets you know the slide
decks and you know some scripts maybe uh
that they can work off of um
ideally a customer journey that they can
that they can look to follow to uh to
allow themselves to to get into it so
that they can apprehend exactly what it
is that you know you are doing as a
as a product the value that you're
delivering to the different levels of
that uh of that pyramid so that they can
get that level of mastery where then
they become those creative people coming
up with a you know good ideas that are
relevant because they understand your
company you know the the actual software
provider they understand your business
and your product and what can be done
and at the same time they really
understand their customer as well
so you need that strength in certain
places um but then you need to ensure
that there is flexibility that i i will
say
that customer success as a practice my
perspective is that often it tends a
little bit too far towards structure
towards repeatable processes now of
course we're working in an enterprise
software environment where we can afford
to spend a good amount of time with each
and every customer for the most part we
don't do a sort of touch or light touch
um i think in those contexts obviously
automation you know systemization of
your of your processes make perfect
sense but i worry that some of those
practices creep up into some of the uh
let's see more enterprise engagements
and that can really stifle creativity
once again you're generally paying your
customer success professionals quite
well uh they should be experts in their
uh in their field experts on your
product and really lean into their
creativity and their good ideas you know
truly embrace that tension of having a
well-structured process for people to
come on board uh to ensure essentially
you know the the core activities are
done but then leave space for that uh
for that creativity to to take hold so
once again i don't want to sit here and
uh you know share theoretical ideas now
with pictures of willows uh off to the
side there um let me hand it over to
jack to to share with you some of some
examples of how that's actually played
out in the field
yeah absolutely thanks kurt
so one of the things
we've actually been working over
successive years to really define kpis
for our team but the one thing that
stayed consistent is that we expect
every single csm to have a success plan
on every single account
and much like kurt mentioned sometimes
it's really daunting to to start off
right with a new engagement or a new
customer and determine where to start
and so when csm say you know what does a
good success plan look like i like to
say
it's a way to really tell the story of
your customer and really know your
customer
and much much to kurt's point we're
hiring really
experienced smart people and we're
paying them well we're paying them for
their creativity and that autonomy but a
few things have helped me with my team
and really defining what it looks like
to know your customer
now the first is an account map and when
kurt was talking about tension i was
thinking about this right away because
an account map is a really really
lengthy process to go through
what i often say to my team is map out
all of our stakeholders whether they're
executive whether they're users and
where they fit in the organization in
terms of hierarchy you know how do they
report up to the ceo but also where do
they sit laterally in terms of business
units as well and this helps us really
visualize where we are in the account
but also where we need to be right what
are other teams that potentially could
have users that we could work with
a big point for me was i was tasked with
mapping out a really successful customer
of mine they had high adoption we had
executive support
very good organic growth and so when i
was tasked to spend half a day mapping
out this account i thought well this is
a boondoggle of an exercise because i
know they're doing a good job i don't
need to do this
when i took a step back and looked at
this entire map i realized two things
the first was that all of our executive
stakeholders were actually at the
director and senior director level so
although they had influence you know
throughout the oregon had helped us grow
really well they really weren't at that
super high executive level that we
expected for a strategic account
the second thing we found out was that
of all of our executive champions only
one of them had a mandate to design the
ai strategy of the bank and so if that
person were to leave or if their mandate
were to change we'd be in a really
precarious position so that would be a
point for us to take a step back and
really start mitigating your risk before
it became a risk
start asking for executive business
reviews getting access to senior leaders
and making sure that we're not single
threaded we're able to look at the
entire account
and then after building up the account
map one thing that we ask our csms to do
is really understand the operating model
and that means figuring out you know
where does the economic power sit in the
organization and who designs the
strategy and how is it rolled out
throughout
we've actually offered some really
interesting trainings on different
operating models whether they're
centralized decentralized hub and spoke
and um we encourage a lot of knowledge
sharing throughout the team as well on
different operating models and how
they've worked
the reason this is important is that it
helps your csms understand how should
they be engaging with this account which
team should they be connecting with with
which frequency and also going back to
our value discussion understanding
understanding the operating model also
helps us understand the language with
which we speak to all these teams and
all these different stakeholders
the next thing that's really important
for our team to do is really understand
the surrounding tech ecosystem right
it's highly unlikely that your offering
is just existing in a silo somewhere and
isn't connecting to anything else it's
important to understand the ecosystem in
which your users are using the tool what
are the dependencies does your tool rely
on and it helps make sure that the
environment in which your tool is
operating is really set up for success
especially for us when when often we'll
have an environment that can't sustain
growth right and we we didn't have
access or the insight into how the
environment was currently set up but it
can also help create opportunities you
know earlier we were talking about cloud
offerings if we find out that they're
moving to the cloud we can embed
ourselves in those conversations and say
hey here's the best way to do it because
one of the worst things that can happen
um in a lot of these situations is that
something completely outside of your
offering and something completely
outside of your tool could impact your
users experience and you might not know
anything about it and you run the risk
of a bad experience or a bad brand and
someone thinking this has to do with
your offering
and then finally
you know all of this knowing your
customer and all of these data points
feed into really understanding the goals
of the customer
and
this i'm a canadian so hockey is really
important to us so i was hoping to get
some animation that said like go
but
really in knowing and knowing where your
customers are and who they sit how they
work together and what their surrounding
ecosystem looks like you can figure out
what their goals really are as an
organization as you work with them and
when you know their goals you know what
success looks like you know what value
looks like and you can start building
your your csms can start building out
these work streams to really help
achieve those goals and achieve that
success so that your customer comes back
and says not only do i want to renew for
another gazillion years but i want to
expand your footprint throughout because
you're really really
you really know us really well you're
really a stakeholder in our success
and that was all back to you kurt thank
you so much jack no now uh uh i i'm
really looking forward to those
gazillion year renewals uh that's going
to look great
that's going to look great for our
reporting um no but i i think that this
is a really useful example and is really
core to the structure that we provide to
uh to the organization these are things
that are must do's uh we know that every
single account needs this to be done um
we know that this mapping uh that the
jag is describing is is absolutely
necessary to um uh
to allow for a good outcome but at the
same time right we don't pretend that uh
that we know everything that every
process is perfect and you know every
aspect of our offering is perfect as
well um and that's where uh you know we
we have some good examples of
situations where feedback has come from
the uh has come from the uh the field
from both our users but also our css out
in the field and we've been flexible
enough to uh to adapt to that so um once
again uh jag being the uh the actual uh
field oriented uh uh experienced person
here um
i would like you to uh to come back and
share perhaps one of those experiences
as well from uh from the team
yeah absolutely
so in our business you know we're
measured success is measured by adoption
on our team right are people logging
into the tool are they using the tool
and are they using it regularly and in
order for people in order for users to
use the tool in the best way possible
they need to be trained and enabled on
it
and so over the last 18 months
we've really made some some key changes
in how we train and enable our users
and the first
the first change came i would say
early in 2020 and i'm sure different
data points contributed to this decision
but often i would have customers come to
us and say is there a way for users to
just kind of log on somewhere and
access a few tutorials or some quick
start blogs or something like that on
how to use your tool and we did have
some great resources in different
centers but under kurt's leadership our
user advocacy team was able to build out
a portal that was a self-service
learning portal
it's been beautifully defined with
individual courses that can then be made
up into learning paths and after
completing successive learning paths our
users could gain a certification
and the response from a lot of our
customers especially our large
enterprise customers was amazing they
said we love this we can just point our
new users to this direction
tell them to go through it usually in
about a week they're up and running and
you've taken so much of the time and
burden off of some of our champions to
really have to go in and show these
users how to use the tool so it was
fantastic
but then some of our users came back and
they said well this is lovely we love
the online learning portal but when
sometimes when new users want to get
access to the tool there's a lot of
administration that slows the process
down so from the moment someone decides
they want to use it or want to try it to
when they actually get access it can
take a lot of time
is there some sort of environment that
we could just log into
and test it out and play it out using
fake dummy data and we said yeah
absolutely we can do that for you we can
host an environment however in exchange
if you could just tell us what type of
problems your users are working on that
helps us serve them even better and
understand their usage even better and
so sure enough with some of our
customers we've set up little private
environments we're the ones who bear the
cost and really manage it
but we're gaining so much in return
they're having a great experience
they're able to use it as quick as
possible once they eventually get access
they're able to hit the ground writing
because they already know how to use it
and they're sharing really useful
information with us they're saying hey
this is what we hope to achieve and we
can say hey we can help you out with
that and we can offer you some coaching
on that use case
most recently some of our users came
back and our client champions came back
and they said this is wonderful like we
love this self-service platform but
sometimes we could use a little bit more
and we actually miss connecting with
your data scientists and learning about
their expertise so is there somewhere in
the middle that we can meet and build
something that's more of a hybrid
solution and we said yes absolutely
and so now we're deploying an entire
enablement program where users will
initially go through the online portal
and our customer success managers as
well as client champions on their side
can go in and track everyone's progress
and then in tandem we work with our
client champion to come up with a really
interesting use case
something that is complex enough that
they can really see value and really
highlight the key features of our tool
but something that's also simple enough
that they can build a quick project in
it
what we then do is we take the skills
they learned in the online portal and
then we do a hands-on training we do it
with their data we do it in their
environment and we do it on a use case
that's relevant to their day-to-day work
so they're walking away and saying that
yeah this is a great tool and i'm able
to do interesting things but this is how
it relates to my world and this is the
great stuff that i can create with it so
it's a much more relatable much more
valuable experience for our users and
they also get to interface with some of
our subject matter experts and learn
some tips and tricks and best practices
and really add a more personal and
engaging approach to the training and
enablement process
back to you kirk thanks jake uh and so
once again here's a this is a perfect
example of where you know a good idea
came from our customers uh translate you
know transferred to us through uh
through the team members uh we
identified yes that makes sense now is
the right time to do it and we went
ahead and got it done um and so i think
that balancing the uh the the structure
which is provided in the standard
processes
along with the flexibility to say yes as
a matter of fact we can do that uh
that's really key to your success as a
as a customer success organization or as
you know any sort of
software business on a recurring revenue
model those are the sort of actions that
you need to be taking and the structures
internally that you need to be building
to to succeed
so uh once again uh public service
announcement don't hesitate to drop
questions into the q a a couple of great
questions are already coming in and we
will get to those in just a couple of
minutes um but just before then uh we're
going to wrap things up right and what
what i want to tell you what i want all
of you to take home is this notion of
strength from tension right that
ultimately by embracing these tensions
uh between you know individual users and
executive stakeholders uh between uh
structured process and flexibility in
your processes that embracing that
tension is how you cross that chasm from
uh you know an organization uh or a
customer that may have only two users on
your platform all the way across to a
customer that has 2 000 users on that
platform
so crossing that 1000 x chasm so
the metaphor that i often like to think
about i'm a person who often thinks in
metaphors a mechanical visual and
otherwise right is that of a bridge
right
we all know a bridge's strength comes
from the exploitation of a pois of
opposing forces you have two things that
are either pressing down on a keystone
if it's an arch right or pulling in
opposite directions
if it's a suspension bridge to ensure
that that bridge is strong actually
without that tension the bridge is not
very strong at all uh and so it's this
dynamic tension that you need to seek
out within your organization
and so ultimately right
it's by building that bridge across
that chasm that you're going to be able
to exploit that much larger market that
may be out there
and so those key takeaways that we want
uh that we want you to have uh one is it
to expand your view beyond user beyond
users to all stakeholders because it's
not just ease of use or business value
it's both um and two
to know that your team structure your
internal teams
need to be sufficiently structured but
also while creating space in building in
space engineering space into that
structure for innovation for flexibility
so you need to find the right balance
between structure and flexibility and
ultimately right that's how you can
cross that chasm from small
organizations to large to access those
much larger
potential user bases that you uh that
you may not otherwise have access to
today and truly succeed as a customer
success organization that's driving
value back to to your organization
so with that we want to say thank you uh
for your attention uh and we look
forward to answering your questions um
actually we've already got some
questions coming in here so i'm going to
go ahead and turn off the screen share
and we'll ask this first one the first
question is how do you store share and
collaborate on these success plans or
you know potentially other assets i
imagine to actually track success
against we find that these activities
are useful but they often become static
power points and pdfs
i have some thoughts on that then
maybe you can add some some additional
detail so for us anything that is a must
do needs to go into the system of record
and for us you know that's our crm sales
force no surprise um that it needs to be
tracked there in some cases though we do
want to allow some flexibility in that
structure
remember what i just said right uh uh
and we want to ensure that you can use a
format which is appropriate we do use
quip quite a lot uh though it's not
quite uh universal for those plans um in
cases where it's not something
integrated directly into uh into
salesforce then of course we need a link
to uh you know to our google document to
uh to reference it i think how you keep
that from becoming uh stale in getting
out of date is actually more through a
management practice uh which is when do
you review it and in which forum because
again it's not just a matter of creating
it though the fact that the act of
creating it is inherently useful as well
it forces the csm to sit down and think
about their their organization and how
they want to drive value to it but
really it's when you review it and so
for example we have um
you know some implementation risk
assessments uh that we do for for some
of our bigger projects um and we now
review those uh for our largest
customers on a uh on a uh monthly
cadence uh for the uh for the larger
ones with a very broad group those
documents also then get reviewed down at
lower levels within the organization and
this can go all the way down to a
one-to-one meeting between a manager and
their direct report
where you may want to be going through
those
reviewing those documents uh together i
think i have a kind of a general belief
that a document will go stale if it's
not going to be the subject of a meeting
at some point um and so it's actually by
building that review in that you ensure
that they uh that they stay up to date
um jay do you want to uh to add on to
that you may have more more relevant
experience here
you know what i was gonna pretty much
say exactly what you did around like i
think leaders really hold our team
members accountable for keeping this as
a live document and i think a way that
we can do that is when we are seeking
account updates setting the expectation
that the success plan is a source of
truth on the account and if you ask a
team member to go through this entire
exercise but you're never coming in to
look at it or offer feedback it is going
to go stale so um to kirk's point one of
the things that's worked really well is
when we are doing an account review or
reviewing the status of an account
making sure that everything that we're
asking of them is embedded into the plan
so we are constantly
going back to this um
to the same consistent document
but i do find centralizing things as
much as possible and creating the
tooling for your team that it's less of
a manual ask and more of an automated or
a frictionless ask is is important so
for example when it comes to building
out account maps we've adopted
lucidcharts which make it so easy so
user friendly and so intuitive to go in
and create little changes um you don't
have to create a new bubble and draw
lines you can literally just click add
or subtract to make new changes so
really finding ways to make these
frictionless but also holding your team
accountable by referring back to this
document regularly has helped me a lot
and i uh
you saying that and drag makes me think
as well that you know often we think
from a management perspective we're
thinking well it's the responsibility of
the uh
of the individual to to keep that
document up to date and sure that's true
um but i think that there's a
responsibility on management as well to
actually look at those documents and
make sure that people well that the team
knows that those documents are being uh
are being looked at um you know that's
uh you know if i
you know having uh you know done the job
myself right i know just how futile it
feels to uh to to be preparing something
pouring effort into something that you
know is just serving uh you know either
nobody's ever going to look at or is
just to check a box you can't have that
um so i think it's really ensuring that
everyone knows that this is a real
document that everyone is going to look
at that
that's really important
so let me uh let me look back at the
questions here so just give me a brief
moment to read this one some of the
questions which are coming in
oh this is a this is an interesting one
from anonymous attendee um speaking of
centralization how do you typically land
and explain
and expand the second question how do
you manage the tension between
fast-paced self-service business users
and the cio's uh
antithetical resistance to shadow i.t of
that question um and not just for the
use of antithetical uh
but extra points for that as well um and
what does that sales motion and customer
life cycle look like okay so plenty of
stuff to to to work on here um so let's
take them one by one
how do we typically land and expand so
we we have a couple of different uh
motions we do have you know kind of a
use case or business uh unit landing
motion right where we're going in and
looking to deliver specific value on one
use case to uh
to a given customer even a large
organization
and then from there right it's going to
be much more of a i don't want to say
political but an organizational build
right where we want to take that success
from this one business unit and then
explain that uh to other business units
or perhaps to a centralized entity
so that they see the the broader
potential
other versions though we we do often
come in uh with a large initial
engagement sometimes and what makes
those different those large engagements
different is whether the full intended
user base is already identified you know
for example this is a central entity and
they've got hundreds of thousands of
users and we need to go now and drive it
down into them
or if it's going to be let's say a sort
of a internal reallocation of licenses
even with a reselling of a sort of an
internal reselling of licenses that
changes very differently uh
significantly how we uh how we go about
that uh that engagement because it's no
longer you know a hierarchical top down
um we've bought this therefore you must
use it it's rather we have this
available for you and you may use it if
you want uh which does change that um uh
that motion um
the second question was how do we manage
the tension between fast-paced
self-service business users and the
cio's antithetical resistance to shadow
i2 and that's where you know we um
you know i think that we uh
we sympathize a lot with uh with that
cio um and uh we see a lot of value in
our particular product case and it may
not be true for every product but we we
do see a lot of uh value from our
product
from a more centralized place so often
we're we're going after and knocking on
the door of the cio very early on um you
know other companies and you know very
understandably uh have a strategy of
trying to fly under the radar for as
long as possible until they can pop up
and say hey look at our footprint you
might as well uh you might as well talk
about an ela at this point um that's
never been data acoust strategy but
again i think that that's more specific
to what our product does uh which again
is not so much the topic for today then
anything you know necessarily being the
right or the wrong way to uh to do that
um and then finally what does that sales
motion and customer life cycle look like
well the sales motion right mostly it's
enterprise so it's it's relatively long
for most of our uh
most of our engagements relatively long
you know we're talking on the order of
months uh though of course there have
been some you know customers that we've
talked to for over a year before they
finally get around to buying the
software um
but ultimately right we do tend to have
longer enterprise uh skill uh sales
motions during that sales motion
importantly and i think you know there's
uh always ways and we can improve but we
do want to set the customer up for
success during the sales motion um and
that means ensuring that the customer
has a good understanding not only of
what the product does but let's say what
the mutual expectations are going to be
between the customer and us for their
success on that platform um and we take
an approach where we want to do
everything that we can to get them to a
high level of value as quickly as
possible and so that
involves professional services to help
them get up and running but at the same
time be building towards their own
autonomy
and so that they can start taking on
more of that work themselves our most
successful our largest customers are
those that are able to onboard their
users themselves uh they do that in a
highly contextualized way um onboarding
you know their employees onto our
product but in a way which is specific
to their organization you know they
built out that uh
that capacity um and so i i think that
you know for us it's again maybe
specific to the to the nature of our
product or our uh or our sales cycle um
but we uh uh we've generally found
success with uh with those models um jag
is there anything that you wanted to add
on you know any one of those uh
dimensions
yeah um to the the question around
landing and expanding one of the things
that rcsms are measured on and really
encouraged to do are developed customer
champions not just people who use the
tool and have a really good use case but
someone who's really willing to be your
voice within their organization or even
externally so we engage in a lot of
joint webinars or success stories or our
community usually recently came out with
an award but really investing in those
relationships so that your customer kind
of is that driver of growth for you and
really the the key to that is keeping
the customer really happy right and
delivering value to them but we've had
some really really great success where
we've had customers advocate as great
champions for us both internally and
externally
and
in terms of our customer life cycle one
thing i really love about our practice
and one of the reasons i joined is that
we really consider customer success as a
strategic stakeholder in the customer
engagement even before the customer
becomes a customer and we introduce our
teams early on and we introduce a lot of
our post sales teams early on and
there's never a hard handoff between you
know post sales sorry pre-sales to post
sales there's always this overlap so
we're gaining a lot of knowledge on the
customer relationship along the way um
but there's no hard break where the
customer says okay now i'm dealing with
you and now i'm dealing with you it's
kind of like like a spectrum of
different folks that they deal with and
i think one that creates a really
seamless experience for them but it also
helps them visualize the future and
engaging with us really early on so
before they even become a customer they
can start thinking about what are these
enablement activities going to look like
what are these success planning
activities going to look like and you
know build a relationship with us before
it becomes a formal commercial one
exactly extremely well said thank you
jeg um and then i see one more question
over in the chat um which is how long
did it take to build and launch your lms
platform lms is a learning management
system uh so it's the platform that we
do the uh the online trainings on uh for
your enterprise clients with unique use
cases
so um let's see if we roll back we've
launched the uh
kind of the lms initiative in january of
2020 um and the you know kind of the
first uh first version went live uh
about five months after that if i recall
correctly in maywe formally launched
what is
academy.dataiku.com um and now that was
with a team of about four people five
people uh working on it full-time with a
good amount of input from other teams
though as well right so there was a
significant investment um in that we
started with the generic you know one
size fits all content for everybody uh
approach um you know kind of building
out what we knew to be the core
curriculum for uh for our product and
then it was uh you know once we got that
initial version out uh those initial
courses out that we started getting the
feedback that well we need uh you know
something a little bit more specific to
users that are you know migrating over
from this other uh from this other
product um or that we need to do
something specific for uh for individual
customers um and so it was then later in
2020 through that crazy year um that we
started uh building some more of the
custom content for the uh for the teams
and you know right now with the team
that we have today uh you know it'll
take about a month or so to to produce a
new uh
learning path um if it's made for
general consumption if it's a matter of
you know just adapting existing content
and making it a little bit more relevant
to a given customer that can be done in
a matter of days um
that said you know this is not to uh i
would encourage all of you to not
underestimate the
um you know kind of the time and effort
required to make a really good
learning experience for your um
for your customers um you know
instructional design is a real skill and
there's a real uh uh
you know craft that that you need to
hire for um you know we were lucky to
have some really talented people already
within the organization but that we did
have to go and hire for as well um but
that said the payoff is there the value
is there and it's definitely worth the
investment just don't underestimate what
it's going to be um you may want to you
need to decide at what point in your
growth and your maturity doesn't make
sense to make that investment but i
guarantee you that the the value is
there if you do a good enough job right
[Music]
you